README.md, before:

# Tsalright's Dotfiles: Configuration for MacOS DevOps Automation

## Usage:

To use Tsalright dotfiles, simply clone this repo into a directory of your choise on your Mac:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:tsalright/dotfiles.git ~/.dotfiles
cd ~/.dotfiles
./install.sh
```

`install.sh` will start by initializing the submodules used by this repository. Then, it will install all symbolic links into your home directory. Every file with a `.symlink` extension will be symlinked to the home directory with `.` in front of it. As an example, `vimrc.symlink` will be symlinked in the home directory as `~/.vimrc`. Then, this script will create a `~/.vim-tmp` directory in your home directory, as this is where vim is configured to place its temporary files. Additionally, all files in the `$DOTFILES/config` directory will be symlinked to the `~/.config` directory for applications that follow the [XDG base directory specification](http://standards.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html), such as neovim.

Next, the install script will perform a check to see if it is running on an OSX Machine. If so, it will install Homebrew if it is not currently installed and will install the homebrew packages listed in [`brew.sh`](install/brew.sh). Then, it will run [`osx.sh`](install/osx.sh) and change some OSX configurations. This file is pretty well documented so it is advised that you __read through and comment out any changes you do not want__. Next, the script will call [`nvm.sh`](install/nvm.sh) to install Node.js (stable) using nvm.

## ZSH Setup

ZSH is configured in the `zshrc.symlink` file, which will be symlinked to the home directory. The following occurs in this file:

* set the `EDITOR` to nvim
* Load any `~/.terminfo` setup
* Set the `CODE_DIR` variable, pointing to the location where the code projects exist for exclusive autocompletion with the `c` command
* Recursively search the `$DOTFILES/zsh` directory for files ending in .zsh and source them
* source a `~/.localrc` if it exists so that additional configurations can be made that won't be kept track of in this dotfiles repo. This is for for things like API keys, etc.
* Add the `~/bin` and `$DOTFILES/bin` directories to the path

## Vim and Neovim Setup

[Neovim](https://neovim.io/) is a fork and drop-in replacement for vim. In most cases, you would not notice a difference between the two, other than Neovim allows plugins to run asynchronously so that they do not freeze the editor, which is the main reason I have switched over to it. Vim and Neovim both use Vimscript and most plugings will work in both (all of the plugins I use do work in both Vim and Neovim). For this reason, they share the same configuration files in this setup. Neovim uses the [XDG base directory specification](http://standards.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html) which means it won't look for a `.vimrc` in your home directory. Instead, its configuation looks like the following:

|                         | Vim        | Neovim                    |
|-------------------------|------------|---------------------------|
| Main Configuration File | `~/.vimrc` | `~/.config/nvim/init.vim` |
| Configuration Directory | `~/.vim`   | `~/.config/nvim`          |

### Installation

Vim is likely already installed on your system. If using a Mac, MacVim will be installed from Homebrew. Neovim will also be installed from Homebrew by default on a Mac. For other systems, you may need to install Neovim manually. See their [web site](http://neovim.io) for more information.

[`link.sh`](install/link.sh) will symlink the XDG configuration directory into your home directory and will then create symlinks for `.vimrc` and `.vim` over to the Neovim configuration so that Vim and Neovim will both be configured in the same way from the same files. The benefit of this configuration is that you only have to maintain a single vim configuation for both, so that if Neovim (which is still alpha software) has issues, you can very seamlessly transition back to vim with no big impact to your productivity.

Inside of [`.zshrc`](zsh/zshrc.symlink), the `EDITOR` shell variable is set to `nvim`, defaulting to Neovim for editor tasks, such as git commit messages. Additionally, I have aliased `vim` to `nvim` in [`aliases.zsh`](zsh/aliases.zsh). You can remove this if you would rather not alias the `vim` command to `nvim`.

Vim and neovim should just work once the correct plugins are installed. To install the plugins, you will need to open Neovim in the following way:

```bash
    nvim +PlugInstall
```

Commit message:

Add shout out to Defilan and added ansible install

README.md, after:

# Tsalright's Dotfiles: Configuration for MacOS DevOps Automation

Huge shout out to my best buddy @Defilan for his DotFiles repo and the work he has put into it. This repo uses a lot of his work, but is customized to how I run my Macs.

## Usage:

To use Tsalright dotfiles, simply clone this repo into a directory of your choise on your Mac:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:tsalright/dotfiles.git ~/.dotfiles
cd ~/.dotfiles
./install.sh
```

`install.sh` will start by initializing the submodules used by this repository. Then, it will install all symbolic links into your home directory. Every file with a `.symlink` extension will be symlinked to the home directory with `.` in front of it. As an example, `vimrc.symlink` will be symlinked in the home directory as `~/.vimrc`. Then, this script will create a `~/.vim-tmp` directory in your home directory, as this is where vim is configured to place its temporary files. Additionally, all files in the `$DOTFILES/config` directory will be symlinked to the `~/.config` directory for applications that follow the [XDG base directory specification](http://standards.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html), such as neovim.

Next, the install script will perform a check to see if it is running on an OSX Machine. If so, it will install Homebrew if it is not currently installed and will install the homebrew packages listed in [`brew.sh`](install/brew.sh). Then, it will run [`osx.sh`](install/osx.sh) and change some OSX configurations. This file is pretty well documented so it is advised that you __read through and comment out any changes you do not want__. Next, the script will call [`nvm.sh`](install/nvm.sh) to install Node.js (stable) using nvm.

## ZSH Setup

ZSH is configured in the `zshrc.symlink` file, which will be symlinked to the home directory. The following occurs in this file:

* set the `EDITOR` to nvim
* Load any `~/.terminfo` setup
* Set the `CODE_DIR` variable, pointing to the location where the code projects exist for exclusive autocompletion with the `c` command
* Recursively search the `$DOTFILES/zsh` directory for files ending in .zsh and source them
* source a `~/.localrc` if it exists so that additional configurations can be made that won't be kept track of in this dotfiles repo. This is for for things like API keys, etc.
* Add the `~/bin` and `$DOTFILES/bin` directories to the path

## Vim and Neovim Setup

[Neovim](https://neovim.io/) is a fork and drop-in replacement for vim. In most cases, you would not notice a difference between the two, other than Neovim allows plugins to run asynchronously so that they do not freeze the editor, which is the main reason I have switched over to it. Vim and Neovim both use Vimscript and most plugings will work in both (all of the plugins I use do work in both Vim and Neovim). For this reason, they share the same configuration files in this setup. Neovim uses the [XDG base directory specification](http://standards.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html) which means it won't look for a `.vimrc` in your home directory. Instead, its configuation looks like the following:

|                         | Vim        | Neovim                    |
|-------------------------|------------|---------------------------|
| Main Configuration File | `~/.vimrc` | `~/.config/nvim/init.vim` |
| Configuration Directory | `~/.vim`   | `~/.config/nvim`          |

### Installation

Vim is likely already installed on your system. If using a Mac, MacVim will be installed from Homebrew. Neovim will also be installed from Homebrew by default on a Mac. For other systems, you may need to install Neovim manually. See their [web site](http://neovim.io) for more information.

[`link.sh`](install/link.sh) will symlink the XDG configuration directory into your home directory and will then create symlinks for `.vimrc` and `.vim` over to the Neovim configuration so that Vim and Neovim will both be configured in the same way from the same files. The benefit of this configuration is that you only have to maintain a single vim configuation for both, so that if Neovim (which is still alpha software) has issues, you can very seamlessly transition back to vim with no big impact to your productivity.

Inside of [`.zshrc`](zsh/zshrc.symlink), the `EDITOR` shell variable is set to `nvim`, defaulting to Neovim for editor tasks, such as git commit messages. Additionally, I have aliased `vim` to `nvim` in [`aliases.zsh`](zsh/aliases.zsh). You can remove this if you would rather not alias the `vim` command to `nvim`.

Vim and neovim should just work once the correct plugins are installed. To install the plugins, you will need to open Neovim in the following way:

```bash
    nvim +PlugInstall
```
